Document our Guilds. (#762)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/getting-started/guilds.md

---
title: "Engineering Guilds"
date: 2021-01-25T16:50:35+00:00
weight: 50
subsection: Getting Started
---

> Our Engineering Guilds are a forum for sharing knowledge, discussing and agreeing plans and disseminating information related to a particular subject or technical topic. Many (although not all) Engineering Guilds are affiliated to a particular "platform" that forms a part of Mattermost, and are therefore associated with a particular Platform Team. However, the participants in each Guild span across many engineering teams at Mattermost in order to get people together to share knowledge and disseminate decisions across the Engineering organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Engineering Guilds are a forum for sharing knowledge, discussing and agreeing on plans, and disseminating information related to a particular subject or technical topic. Many (although not all) Engineering Guilds are affiliated to a particular "platform" that forms a part of Mattermost, and are therefore associated with a particular Platform Team. However, the participants in each Guild span many engineering teams at Mattermost in order to get people together to share knowledge and disseminate decisions across the Engineering organization.
```

> The main activity of Guilds is a regular meeting. These meetings are public, and anyone within Mattermost Inc, or the wider community are welcome to attend. Details are provided below on each of the guilds, including how to participate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main activity of Guilds is a regular meeting. These meetings are public, and anyone within Mattermost and the wider community is welcome to attend. Details are provided below on each of the Guilds, including how to participate.
```

## Web Application & Desktop Guild

The Web Application & Desktop Guild covers all areas related to front-end web development and Electron desktop app development at Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Dean Whillier
- **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: WebApp](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/webapp)

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer 2: Should that be 
```suggestion
- **Guild Meeting Time:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*
```
? It wasn't obvious to me what that means.

Author: 0/5 personally. I'll let @justinegeffen advise as editor.

Reviewer: Good suggestion, @hanzei.

## Mobile Guild

The Mobile Guild covers all areas related to mobile application development and React Native.

- **Guild Lead:** Elias Nahum
- **Guild Channel:** [~]()
- **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

## Server/Backend Guild

> The server guild covers all areas related to our server codebase and general Go development at Mattermost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Server/Backend Guild covers all areas related to our server codebase and general Go development at Mattermost.
```

- **Guild Lead:** Miguel de la Cruz
- **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: Server](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developers-server)
- **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

## Cloud Guild

The Cloud Guild covers all areas related to our cloud infrastructure and Kubernetes orchestration of Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Gabe Jackson
- **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: Cloud](https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/cloud)
- **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

## QA Guild

The QA Guild covers all areas related to the Quality Assurance and Automated Testing infrastructure at Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Linda Mitchell
- **Guild Channel:** [~QA: Weekly Meetings](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/qa-weekly-meetings)

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

## Contributor Community Guild

The Contributor Community Guild covers all areas related to the Mattermost Community like the Contributor Experience, Events and the health of the Community.

- **Guild Lead:** Jason Blais
- **Guild Channel:** [~guild-contributor-community ](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/guild-contributor-community)
- **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

```

cc @jasonblais

Author: Thanks!

---
title: "Engineering Guilds"
date: 2021-01-25T16:50:35+00:00
weight: 50
subsection: Getting Started
---

Our Engineering Guilds are a forum for sharing knowledge, discussing and agreeing on plans, and disseminating information related to a particular subject or technical topic. Many (although not all) Engineering Guilds are affiliated to a particular "platform" that forms a part of Mattermost, and are therefore associated with a particular Platform Team. However, the participants in each Guild span many engineering teams at Mattermost in order to get people together to share knowledge and disseminate decisions across the Engineering organization.

The main activity of Guilds is a regular meeting. These meetings are public, and anyone within Mattermost and the wider community is welcome to attend. Details are provided below on each of the Guilds, including how to participate.

## Web Application & Desktop Guild

The Web Application & Desktop Guild covers all areas related to front-end web development and Electron desktop app development at Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Dean Whillier

> - **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: WebApp](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/webapp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~Developers: WebApp](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/webapp)
```

> ## Web Application & Desktop Guild
> 
> The Web Application & Desktop Guild covers all areas related to front-end web development and Electron desktop app development at Mattermost.
> 
> - **Guild Lead:** Dean Whillier
> - **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: WebApp](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/webapp)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Web Platform Guild

The Web Platform Guild covers all areas related to front-end web development and Electron desktop app development at Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Jesse Hallam
- **Guild channel:** [~Developers: WebApp](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/webapp)
```

> - **Guild Meeting Time:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild meeting time:** *(see header of Guild channel for meeting invite)*
```

## Mobile Guild

The Mobile Guild covers all areas related to mobile application development and React Native.

- **Guild Lead:** Elias Nahum

> - **Guild channel:** [~]()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~Developers: Mobile](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/native-mobile-apps)
```

> - **Guild Channel:** [~]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~]()
```

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild meeting time:** *(see header of Guild channel for meeting invite)*
```

## Server/Backend Guild

The Server/Backend Guild covers all areas related to our server codebase and general Go development at Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Miguel de la Cruz

> - **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: Server](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developers-server)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~Developers: Server](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/developers-server)
```

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild meeting time:** *(see header of Guild channel for meeting invite)*
```

## Cloud Guild

The Cloud Guild covers all areas related to our cloud infrastructure and Kubernetes orchestration of Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Gabe Jackson

> - **Guild Channel:** [~Developers: Cloud](https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/cloud)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~Developers: Cloud](https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/cloud)
```

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild meeting time:** *(see header of Guild channel for meeting invite)*
```

## QA Guild

The QA Guild covers all areas related to the Quality Assurance and Automated Testing infrastructure at Mattermost.

- **Guild Lead:** Linda Mitchell

> - **Guild Channel:** [~QA: Weekly Meetings](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/qa-weekly-meetings)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~QA: Weekly Meetings](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/qa-weekly-meetings)
```

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild meeting time:** *(see header of Guild channel for meeting invite)*
```

## Contributor Community Guild

> The Contributor Community Guild covers all areas related to the Mattermost Community like the Contributor Experience, Events and the health of the Community.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Contributor Community Guild covers all areas related to the Mattermost Contributor Community like the contributor experience, code contributions, recognition, and more.
```

Reviewer 5: @hanzei what are your thoughts on the above adjustments?

> - **Guild Lead:** Jason Blais

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Guild Lead:** Emily Cook
```

Reviewer 5: Talked with Emily, she offered to take the lead for this guild.

> - **Guild Channel:** [~guild-contributor-community ](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/guild-contributor-community)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild channel:** [~guild-contributor-community ](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/guild-contributor-community)
```

> - **Guild Meeting:** *(see header of Guild Channel for meeting invite)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guild meeting time:** *(see header of Guild channel for meeting invite)*
```
